#In Depth

By necessity xenanthropy must reflect and account the deepest aspects of the human being.  It is our most subtle physicality that is the soil by which we cultivate the ideas driving us.  It is a fool's errand to attempt to account for all things all at once, however, so to explore the totality of an active system such as we are, we must engage the mode of thought experiment.  In our particular sort of thought experiment, we may follow cycles of thought to assess their origins, trajectory and outcome to assess the psyche as well as the life of the ideas it has absorbed.

##Cyclical Nature
Like much of our biology, our cognizance of ourselves and the world around us occurs in cycles and is indeed indiscernible from the rest of our composite self as an organism.  Every action begins as an impulse, manifests expressively, and evokes memory which in turn shapes further impulse and so on.  This begs the question:  Where exactly do we play a part in this?  For our purposes, we may consider these cycles to occur in higher or lower frequencies--the higher being too fast and too subtle to grasp and the lower being more perceptible up to a point.

At a higher frequency, the cycles of our experiential self are essentially the raw deterministic quality of our being, comprising the cold hard and likely ugly truth of who and what we are.  These cycles smear outward into more abstract notions of the self which permit reflection across a broad spectrum.  Deep personal reflection, for instance, would proceed toward the higher end of this spectrum, whereas reflection upon a larger interplay of forces on societal or even cosmic levels would proceed toward the lower end--the nature of which eventually proves no more comprehensible than our own inner workings, both outside the "visible spectrum" so to speak.

By exploring this spectrum evenly and to our fullest capacity, we may develop a more massive yet condensed sense of self by recognizing all that begets our being from moment to moment, from the grandest schemes down to the finest details.  However, it is important first to develop a model by which to grasp this spectrum in parts which we may discern from one another and which enable us to infer the indiscernible as well as the invisible--the sub and superliminal.

##Triangulation
On an uneven surface, a chair may only stand on three legs, but it supports its occupant nonetheless.  An unknown point may be located by analyzing its relation to three known points.  In both cases one uncertainty is made more certain by three certainties, the occupant may crash upon the floor and the point may never be located without three points firmly established at any given time.  This phenomenon is also well established in the history of thought with triangulation itself being applied in various social sciences and tripartite concepts making appearances in theology and theories of every sort.  Our video monitors require at least three colors to represent the whole visible spectrum to the human eye and a computer generally comprises the interplay of hardware, firmware, and software.  Thus, to model the cycles of our own sentience, we must define it as the perpetual exchange of three distinct properties.

We have already made mention of the subliminal and superliminal, so the adjoining aspect would of course be the liminal.  Aptly, liminality is defined as the quality of transition or of occupying or straddling the threshhold of something.  Here, we will define it as the property of what is knowable or, more precisely, the property which "makes knowable"--the visible portion of the spectrum.  In a more broad sense, it is action, but not in merely in doing but in [dasein](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dasein) or *being there*, the interplay of all worldly forces.  Cognizance itself can be seen as occupying this portion of the cycle--the act of sensing, thinking, or comprehending in more crude terms--as it is as much an action as any motor reflex to calculate or assign symbols to a happening, likewise does the happening itself occupy this portion.

Where superliminality comes into play is as the manner in which liminality leaves a lasting imprint.  It is the way in which it is cataloged or more simply, the reflective portion the cycle; perhaps not the memory itself, but the relation between memories whether within or without the mind.  We can best describe it as the quality of the course of cognizance or the way in which we map and assign value.  The specific "causeways" are something static and deterministic from moment to moment, however.  This is the result of adaptation put to trial and molded by the adequacy of their superliminality but not merely metaphysical in nature.

Here we come at last to the subliminal--the static world as it is from moment to moment.  It is immutable in and of itself but by the procession of time from one moment to the next.  It is what is written and what may spur further writing.  It is impossible to grasp, as the mere act of grasping cannot be isolated from it.
